Language harmonization, smoothing, etc. (#82)
arcus/Arcus_Labs_Orientation: arcus_orientation.md

<div style = "clear:both;"></div>

### Lab Settings Pane

![`An Arcus Lab Settings pane, showing Internet Disabled`](media/lab_settings.png)<!-- style = "max-width: 400px; margin-right: 2rem; margin-bottom: 2rem;"-->

By default, your lab will start in [Internet Disabled mode](#security-feature-internet-disabled-mode). 

> Internet Disabled mode provides an extra layer of security to protect your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internet Disabled mode provides an extra layer of security to protect your data. We have built an "Install Tool" to allow you to still install new packages and libraries even while in Internet Disabled mode. 
```

## Security Feature: Internet Disabled Mode

> While there are myriad benefits to taking a scripted approach to data analysis, it does also introduce some specific privacy and security risks. Thankfully, Arcus has taken these risks into consideration, and developed our [Internet Disabled mode](https://forum.arcus.chop.edu/t/about-the-arcus-lab-security-setting-for-disabling-internet-in-labs/741) feature. The feature provides peace of mind by allowing you to work on your code in an environment that is entirely disconnected from the internet, keeping your data and code safer. 

Author: How do we feel about dropping the word "Thankfully" here? It might just be my midwestern roots showing, but I feel weird expressing gratitude for ourselves... @franzenr

Reviewer: I'm totally fine dropping that word! It existed mainly to help _me_ transition between the ideas in my mind while writing, but I also felt a little weird about it. @rosemm

Reviewer 2: What about...

```suggestion
While there are myriad benefits to taking a scripted approach to data analysis, it does also introduce some specific privacy and security risks. To mitigate these risks, Arcus has developed our [Internet Disabled mode](https://forum.arcus.chop.edu/t/about-the-arcus-lab-security-setting-for-disabling-internet-in-labs/741) feature. The feature provides peace of mind by allowing you to work on your code in an environment that is entirely disconnected from the internet, keeping your data and code safer. 
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there are myriad benefits to taking a scripted approach to data analysis, it does also introduce some specific privacy and security risks. Arcus has taken these risks into consideration, and developed our [Internet Disabled mode](https://forum.arcus.chop.edu/t/about-the-arcus-lab-security-setting-for-disabling-internet-in-labs/741) feature for labs. The feature provides peace of mind by allowing you to work on your code in an environment that is entirely disconnected from the internet, keeping your data and code safer. 
```

Using Internet Disabled mode helps protect you from both of these risks, by allowing you to work on your code in a space that is entirely disconnected from the public internet. 

But how do I install packages without internet?
------
Of course, you'll still need to be able to install packages or download files to do your work. For this, we've developed the **Install Tool**. Rather than installing your packages in the same environment that includes your data, when you use this tool, the packages automatically begin installing in a separate environment that doesn't have any data in it. This ensures that, if there is any malicious code in the scripts that govern the installation process, it does not have any access to your data while it executes. Once the packages have finished installing, they become available to you in your lab. At this point, by subsequently running your code in your lab in Internet Disabled mode, even if there is any malicious code in the package you've installed, it doesn't have any access to the Internet in order to exfiltrate your data.

When should I use Internet Disabled mode?
---

> Since its not always easy to tell when legitimate packages may be accessing the internet, **we recommend always using Internet Disabled mode**, not just when installing packages. That being said, it is still possible to enable access to the internet if needed, such as during particularly complex package installations. (Note that the PI is able to completely restrict Internet access for some users. In those cases, users will either need to use the Install Tool or talk to their PI.)

Author: ```suggestion
Since its not always easy to tell when legitimate packages may be accessing the internet, **we recommend always using Internet Disabled mode**, not just when installing packages. That being said, it is still possible to enable access to the internet if needed, such as during particularly complex package installations. 

<div class = "important">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

Note that the PI is able to completely restrict Internet access for some users. 
In those cases, users will either need to use the Install Tool or talk to their PI.

</div>
```

Author: @franzenr I think this might be nice as a highlight box, but also happy to leave it just as a parenthetical. Up to you.

Reviewer: Oooh I like this! Great idea!

When should I use Internet Disabled mode?
---
Since its not always easy to tell when legitimate packages may be accessing the internet, **we recommend always using Internet Disabled mode**, not just when installing packages. That being said, it is still possible to enable access to the internet if needed, such as during particularly complex package installations. 

<div class = "important">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

Note that the PI is able to completely restrict Internet access for some users. 
In those cases, users will either need to use the Install Tool or talk to their PI.

</div>

### Switching Modes

> Once you've opened your lab, on the top left-hand side of the screen is a "Lab Settings" box, which contains Security options for "Internet Disabled" and "Internet Enabled." You can click on the question mark symbol next to the word "Security", which provides condensed information about when to use each mode. When you turn your lab on, it will be booted in whichever mode has been selected. In the example of the screenshot below, turning the lab on would start it in Internet Disabled mode. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've opened your lab, on the top left-hand side of the screen is a "Lab Settings" box, which contains Security options for "Internet Disabled" and "Internet Enabled." You can click on the question mark symbol next to the word "Security," which provides condensed information about when to use each mode. When you turn your lab on, it will be booted in whichever mode has been selected. In the example of the screenshot below, turning the lab on would start it in Internet Disabled mode. 
```

> ![The lab settings contains a security section with two radio buttons: one for Internet Disabled, which is selected here, and one for Internet Enabled. Changing this setting requires the lab to be restarted.](media/lab_settings.png)<!-- style = "max-width: 400px;"-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The lab settings pane contains a security section with two radio buttons: one for Internet Disabled, which is selected here, and one for Internet Enabled. Changing this setting requires the lab to be restarted.](media/lab_settings.png)<!-- style = "max-width: 400px;"-->
```

Most functions in R run locally -- once you install the package they're in, they're saved on your machine (or in this case, in your Arcus Lab) for you to use whenever you like, without requiring you to have an internet connection. 
If you already have R code written for your analysis, chances are all of that code will continue to work in exactly the same way whether or not you have internet disabled. 

We've also set up your Arcus Lab to allow some common remote connections in a secure way, so you can keep your lab in Internet Disabled mode but still maintain access to certain secure services. 
Here are some things you can **always** access from R, even with internet disabled: 

- Your Arcus data (for example, using commands like `bq_table_download()` from the `bigrquery` package)
- Repositories on CHOP's Enterprise GitHub (for example, using `clone`, `push`, and `pull`)
- Opening external links from within RStudio, such as clicking a link for a vignette from within help documentation in R

However, there are a few important R functions that require an internet connection to work (especially `install.packages()`), potentially posing a security risk for your data. 

> To provide peace of mind for researchers working in Arcus, we provide a secure method for you to install R packages and download other necessary files without having to enable internet. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To provide peace of mind for researchers working in Arcus, the Install Tool lets you install R packages and download other necessary files without having to enable internet. 
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide peace of mind for researchers working in Arcus, we provide a secure method for you to install R packages and download other necessary files without having to enable internet: the Install Tool. 
```

I like that the sentence says in words what the Install Tool is, but agree that using the name is also helpful to make it clear that the tool is what we're talking about. How about combining both?

You can reach the Install Tool from your lab dashboard, under Tools.

> ![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "New Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)

Reviewer 2: This image isn't showing up. I think the file is accidentally named install_dashbaord.png

Reviewer: just pushed a change to fix the name -- that being said, we may need to take this screenshot again anyways, once the name is fixed in the dev labs. (Or do what Joy suggested and edit it somehow).

> ![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "New Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)
```

You can now return to R and your packages will be available. 
You can load them with `library()` or `require()` as you normally would.

Note that if you forget and attempt to run `install.packages()` in Internet Disabled mode, you should see a helpful error message reminding you to use the Install Tool instead. 

> ![A screenshot of RStudio's console pane, where the command "install.packages('ggplot2')" is followed by the error message "Internet connection is Disabled. Installing packages with install.packages() from within an Arcus lab will not work. Instead, use the install form available in the Tools section of your lab dashboard. For help, submit a ticket at https://support.arcus.chop.edu/servicedesk/customer/portal/6/create/303"](media/install_r_error_msg.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot also needs to be updated, right? (provided that there are plans to edit the code of the package so that the error message that it displays refers to it as the Install Tool rather than form)

</div>

Many researchers use GitHub to archive and share code for their analyses, often as part of the process of publishing a scientific paper.
You can use repositories on CHOP's Enterprise GitHub from your Arcus Lab in Internet Disabled mode, but CHOP's Enterprise GitHub is insufficient for sharing code as part of a publication because it's visible only to people with CHOP credentials. 

If you plan to use a repository on [www.github.com](https://github.com/) (public GitHub) to share the R code from your Arcus Lab, you will need to enable internet when it's time to push commits to the repository. 

> Remember that you do not need an internet connection to do most actions using Git, such as creating new commits or merging branches, so you can wait until it's time to push to [enable internet](#switching-modes), and then return to Internet Disabled mode again afterward. 

Reviewer: should we be referring to enabling internet as using "Internet Enabled mode" similar to how we refer to the opposite setting as using "Internet Disabled mode". If we do end up doing this, we should take another look through the full file to make sure we're being consistent with that. 

```suggestion
Remember that you do not need an internet connection to do most actions using Git, such as creating new commits or merging branches, so you can wait until it's time to push to turn on [Internet Enabled mode](#switching-modes), and then return to Internet Disabled mode again afterward. 
```

### Using Python with Internet Disabled

Most functions in Python run locally -- once you install the package they're in, they're saved on your machine (or in this case, in your Arcus Lab) for you to use whenever you like, without requiring you to have an internet connection. 
If you already have Python code written for your analysis, chances are all of that code will continue to work in exactly the same way whether or not you keep your lab in Internet Disabled mode. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div class = "warning">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Warning!</b><br>

If your code stops working when you switch to Internet Disabled mode and you don't understand why, **stop** before enabling internet and [reach out for help](https://support.arcus.chop.edu/servicedesk/customer/portal/6/create/303) to better understand what the code is doing. 

</div>
```

We have this in the R section, but folks may not read that section if they only use python, so I think it makes sense to also include it here.

We've also set up your Arcus Lab to allow some common remote connections in a secure way, so you can use Internet Disabled mode in your lab but still maintain access to certain secure services. 
Here are some things you can **always** access from Python/Jupyter, even in Internet Disabled mode: 

- Your Arcus data (for example, downloading your data in Python using `bigquery`)
- Repositories on CHOP's Enterprise GitHub (for example, using `clone`, `push`, and `pull`)

However, there are a few important Python actions that require an internet connection to work (especially [installing new packages](#installing-and-updating-packages-in-python)), potentially posing a security risk for your data. 

> To provide peace of mind for researchers working in Arcus, we provide a secure method for you to install Python packages and download other necessary files without having to enable internet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide peace of mind for researchers working in Arcus, we provide a secure method for you to install Python packages and download other necessary files without having to enable internet: the Install Tool. 
```

same as suggestion in the R suggestion combining Elizabeth + Rose's approach

> And if you find you have something you need to do in Python that requires an internet connection, you can always [change your lab's security settings](#switching-modes) to run that code and then return to Internet Disabled mode afterward. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And if you find you have something you need to do in Python that requires an internet connection, you can always [change to Internet Enabled mode](#switching-modes) to run that code and then return to Internet Disabled mode afterward. 
```

You can reach the Install Tool from your lab dashboard, under Tools.

> ![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "New Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)

Reviewer: same comment as above in the R section -- I pushed a name fix but we may need to retake the screenshots either way, once dev reflects the name "Install Tool"

> ![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "New Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)
```

</div>

You can clone a repository on public GitHub without having to enable internet by using the Install Tool in the Tools section on your Lab dashboard.
But in order to pull from or push to a repository on public GitHub you will have to [enable internet](#switching-modes) (and then you can disable it again afterward).

#### Cloning from Public GitHub with the Install Tool

<div class = "help">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Troubleshooting help</b><br>

Note that the Install Tool currently works only for cloning publicly-visible repositories. 

If the repository you want to clone is private, you'll need to [enable internet](#switching-modes) temporarily to clone the repository and then return to Internet Disabled mode again afterward.

</div>

If you want to clone a publicly-visible repository hosted on github.com while in Internet Disabled mode, use the Install Tool, found in the Tools section on your Lab dashboard.

> ![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "New Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An Arcus Lab dashboard, showing the Arcus Lab Tools section with "Install Tool" at the end of the list.](media/install_dashboard.png)
```

Again, I think we'll still need new screenshots for this

<div class = "help">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Troubleshooting help</b><br>

Remember that you still won't be able to push to or pull from a repository on public GitHub while in Internet Disabled mode. 
The Install Tool can clone repositories only (not push and pull). 

> If you need to push or pull to a repository on public GitHub, you'll need to [enable internet](#switching-modes) while you do that and then return to Internet Disabled mode again afterward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to push or pull to a repository on public GitHub, you'll need to switch to [Internet Enabled mode](#switching-modes) while you do that and then return to Internet Disabled mode again afterward.
```

If you would like to learn more about using the Terminal/Command Line, check out the [New to Bash](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/Arcus_Labs_Orientation/main/new_to_bash.md) module for help getting started!

> When Internet Enabled Mode is "on", such files can be downloaded using a command line tool such as `wget`. However, the more secure way to download files to your Arcus lab is to use the Install Tool. Below is a screenshot of the Install Tool with the **Download** option selected. We've entered the URL of a reference file from the [National Cancer Institute Genomic Data Commons](https://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/gdc-data-processing/gdc-reference-files) and renamed it to `Antibody_Description_Files_for_TCGA_RPPA_Data_(v36)`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Internet Enabled mode is "on," such files can be downloaded using a command line tool such as `wget`. However, the more secure way to download files to your Arcus lab is to use the Install Tool. Below is a screenshot of the Install Tool with the **Download** option selected. We've entered the URL of a reference file from the [National Cancer Institute Genomic Data Commons](https://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/gdc-data-processing/gdc-reference-files) and renamed it to `Antibody_Description_Files_for_TCGA_RPPA_Data_(v36)`. 
```
